README.md, before:

# Encode T8 DEX

An educational decentralized exchange (DEX) project built on Solana using the Anchor framework for the Encode Bootcamp. This project implements an automated market maker (AMM) with constant product formula (x * y = k), similar to Uniswap V2.

## 🌟 Features

- **Pool Initialization**: Create liquidity pools for any SPL token pair
- **Add Liquidity**: Deposit tokens to provide liquidity and earn LP tokens
- **Remove Liquidity**: Burn LP tokens to withdraw your proportional share
- **Token Swaps**: Exchange tokens using the constant product formula with 0.1% fee
- **Slippage Protection**: Configurable minimum output amounts to prevent excessive slippage

## 📋 Table of Contents

- [Architecture](#architecture)
- [Program Structure](#program-structure)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Instructions](#instructions)
- [Testing](#testing)
- [Security Features](#security-features)
- [Technical Details](#technical-details)

## 🏗️ Architecture

### Core Components

#### Pool State
The pool stores essential information about the liquidity pool:
- Token A and Token B mint addresses
- Vault addresses for holding tokens
- LP (Liquidity Provider) token mint
- PDA bump seed for secure signing

#### Instructions
1. **Initialize Pool**: Sets up a new liquidity pool
2. **Add Liquidity**: Deposits tokens and mints LP tokens
3. **Remove Liquidity**: Burns LP tokens and withdraws proportional amounts
4. **Swap**: Exchanges one token for another with fee

## 📁 Program Structure

```
encode_t8_dex/
├── programs/
│   └── encode_t8_dex/
│       └── src/
│           ├── lib.rs                    # Program entry point
│           ├── errors.rs                 # Custom error definitions
│           ├── state/
│           │   ├── mod.rs
│           │   └── pool.rs              # Pool account structure
│           └── instructions/
│               ├── mod.rs
│               ├── initialize_pool.rs   # Pool creation logic
│               ├── add_liquidity.rs     # Liquidity provision
│               ├── remove_liquidity.rs  # Liquidity withdrawal
│               └── swap.rs              # Token swap logic
├── tests/
│   └── encode_t8_dex.ts                 # Comprehensive test suite
└── migrations/
    └── deploy.ts                         # Deployment script
```

## 🛠️ Installation

### Prerequisites

- [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install) (v1.89.0)
- [Solana CLI](https://docs.solana.com/cli/install-solana-cli-tools) (v1.18+)
- [Anchor Framework](https://www.anchor-lang.com/docs/installation) (v0.32.1)
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) (v18+)
- [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/)

### Setup

1. **Clone the repository**
```bash
git clone https://github.com/encodeclub/encode_t8_dex.git
cd encode_t8_dex
```

2. **Install dependencies**
```bash
yarn install
```

3. **Build the program**
```bash
anchor build
```

4. **Deploy the program (optional - for local deployment)**
```bash
# Configure Solana for local development
solana config set --url localhost

# Start local validator (in a separate terminal)
solana-test-validator

# Deploy the program
anchor deploy
```

## 🚀 Usage

### Running Tests

Execute the comprehensive test suite:

```bash
anchor test
```

Or with local validator:

```bash
yarn run ts-mocha -p ./tsconfig.json -t 1000000 "tests/**/*.ts"
```

### Test Coverage

The test suite includes:
- Pool initialization
- Initial liquidity provision (first depositor)
- Subsequent liquidity provision (ratio checking)
- Token swaps with fee calculation
- Liquidity removal with proportional withdrawal

## 📝 Instructions

### 1. Initialize Pool

Creates a new liquidity pool for a token pair.

**Accounts:**
- `pool`: Pool PDA account (created)
- `lp_mint`: LP token mint PDA (created)
- `mint_a`: First token mint
- `mint_b`: Second token mint
- `token_vault_a`: Vault for token A (created)
- `token_vault_b`: Vault for token B (created)
- `payer`: Transaction fee payer
- `token_program`: SPL Token program
- `system_program`: System program

**Seeds:**
- Pool PDA: `["pool", mint_a, mint_b]`
- LP Mint PDA: `["lp_mint", mint_a, mint_b]`

### 2. Add Liquidity

Deposits tokens into the pool and receives LP tokens.

**Parameters:**
- `amount_a`: Amount of token A to deposit
- `amount_b`: Amount of token B to deposit

**Logic:**
- **First deposit**: LP tokens = √(amount_a × amount_b)
- **Subsequent deposits**: Enforces ratio matching
  - `required_b = amount_a × vault_b / vault_a`
  - `lp_to_mint = amount_a × lp_supply / vault_a`

**Validations:**
- Non-zero amounts
- Correct ratio (for existing pools)

### 3. Remove Liquidity

Burns LP tokens to withdraw proportional amounts of both tokens.

**Parameters:**
- `lp_amount`: Amount of LP tokens to burn

**Logic:**
- `amount_a = lp_amount × vault_a / lp_supply`
- `amount_b = lp_amount × vault_b / lp_supply`

**Validations:**
- Non-zero LP amount
- Sufficient LP tokens
- Non-zero withdrawal amounts

### 4. Swap

Exchanges one token for another using the constant product formula.

**Parameters:**
- `amount_in`: Amount of input token
- `min_amount_out`: Minimum acceptable output (slippage protection)

**Logic:**
- Fee: 0.1% (1/1000) of input amount
- Formula: `amount_out = (vault_out × amount_in_after_fee) / (vault_in + amount_in_after_fee)`

**Validations:**
- Non-zero input amount
- Slippage check (output ≥ min_amount_out)

## 🔒 Security Features

### Error Handling

Custom error codes with descriptive messages:
- `ZeroAmount`: Prevents zero-value operations
- `InvalidRatio`: Ensures deposits maintain pool ratio
- `InsufficientLiquidity`: Guards against empty pool operations
- `InsufficientLpTokens`: Validates LP token ownership
- `CalculationOverflow`: Catches arithmetic overflows
- `ZeroWithdrawAmount`: Prevents dust withdrawals
- `SlippageExceeded`: Protects against unfavorable swaps
- `CalculationFailure`: Handles general calculation errors

### Account Validation

- PDA verification using seeds and bumps
- Mint address matching
- Token account ownership checks
- Authority validation
- Constraint-based account validation

### Safe Math

- Checked arithmetic operations
- Overflow protection
- Integer square root for LP token calculation
- U128 intermediate calculations to prevent overflow

## 🔧 Technical Details

### Token Decimals

- LP tokens: 6 decimals (hardcoded)
- Supports any decimal configuration for pool tokens

### Fee Structure

- Swap fee: 0.1% (1/1000)
- Fee remains in the pool, benefiting liquidity providers

### Constant Product Formula

The AMM uses the formula: `x × y = k`

Where:
- `x` = Token A reserves
- `y` = Token B reserves
- `k` = Constant product

For swaps:
```
amount_out = (reserve_out × amount_in_after_fee) / (reserve_in + amount_in_after_fee)
```

Commit message:

test: update test .ts file

README.md, after:

# Encode T8 DEX

An educational decentralized exchange (DEX) project built on Solana using the Anchor framework for the Encode Bootcamp. This project implements an automated market maker (AMM) with constant product formula (x \* y = k), similar to Uniswap V2.

## 🌟 Features

- **Pool Initialization**: Create liquidity pools for any SPL token pair
- **Add Liquidity**: Deposit tokens to provide liquidity and earn LP tokens
- **Remove Liquidity**: Burn LP tokens to withdraw your proportional share
- **Token Swaps**: Exchange tokens using the constant product formula with 0.1% fee
- **Slippage Protection**: Configurable minimum output amounts to prevent excessive slippage

## 📋 Table of Contents

- [Architecture](#architecture)
- [Program Structure](#program-structure)
- [Installation](#installation)
- [Usage](#usage)
- [Instructions](#instructions)
- [Testing](#testing)
- [Security Features](#security-features)
- [Technical Details](#technical-details)

## 🏗️ Architecture

### Core Components

#### Pool State

The pool stores essential information about the liquidity pool:

- Token A and Token B mint addresses
- Vault addresses for holding tokens
- LP (Liquidity Provider) token mint
- PDA bump seed for secure signing

#### Instructions

1. **Initialize Pool**: Sets up a new liquidity pool
2. **Add Liquidity**: Deposits tokens and mints LP tokens
3. **Remove Liquidity**: Burns LP tokens and withdraws proportional amounts
4. **Swap**: Exchanges one token for another with fee

## 📁 Program Structure

```
encode_t8_dex/
├── programs/
│   └── encode_t8_dex/
│       └── src/
│           ├── lib.rs                    # Program entry point
│           ├── errors.rs                 # Custom error definitions
│           ├── state/
│           │   ├── mod.rs
│           │   └── pool.rs              # Pool account structure
│           └── instructions/
│               ├── mod.rs
│               ├── initialize_pool.rs   # Pool creation logic
│               ├── add_liquidity.rs     # Liquidity provision
│               ├── remove_liquidity.rs  # Liquidity withdrawal
│               └── swap.rs              # Token swap logic
├── tests/
│   └── encode_t8_dex.ts                 # Comprehensive test suite
└── migrations/
    └── deploy.ts                         # Deployment script
```

## Test Video

![Token Info](./assets/test-video.mov)
_Video showing the amm test_

## 🛠️ Installation

### Prerequisites

- [Rust](https://www.rust-lang.org/tools/install) (v1.89.0)
- [Solana CLI](https://docs.solana.com/cli/install-solana-cli-tools) (v1.18+)
- [Anchor Framework](https://www.anchor-lang.com/docs/installation) (v0.32.1)
- [Node.js](https://nodejs.org/) (v18+)
- [Yarn](https://yarnpkg.com/)

### Setup

1. **Clone the repository**

```bash
git clone https://github.com/encodeclub/encode_t8_dex.git
cd encode_t8_dex
```

2. **Install dependencies**

```bash
yarn install
```

3. **Build the program**

```bash
anchor build
```

4. **Deploy the program (optional - for local deployment)**

```bash
# Configure Solana for local development
solana config set --url localhost

# Start local validator (in a separate terminal)
solana-test-validator

# Deploy the program
anchor deploy
```

## 🚀 Usage

### Running Tests

Execute the comprehensive test suite:

```bash
anchor test
```

Or with local validator:

```bash
yarn run ts-mocha -p ./tsconfig.json -t 1000000 "tests/**/*.ts"
```

### Test Coverage

The test suite includes:

- Pool initialization
- Initial liquidity provision (first depositor)
- Subsequent liquidity provision (ratio checking)
- Token swaps with fee calculation
- Liquidity removal with proportional withdrawal

## 📝 Instructions

### 1. Initialize Pool

Creates a new liquidity pool for a token pair.

**Accounts:**

- `pool`: Pool PDA account (created)
- `lp_mint`: LP token mint PDA (created)
- `mint_a`: First token mint
- `mint_b`: Second token mint
- `token_vault_a`: Vault for token A (created)
- `token_vault_b`: Vault for token B (created)
- `payer`: Transaction fee payer
- `token_program`: SPL Token program
- `system_program`: System program

**Seeds:**

- Pool PDA: `["pool", mint_a, mint_b]`
- LP Mint PDA: `["lp_mint", mint_a, mint_b]`

### 2. Add Liquidity

Deposits tokens into the pool and receives LP tokens.

**Parameters:**

- `amount_a`: Amount of token A to deposit
- `amount_b`: Amount of token B to deposit

**Logic:**

- **First deposit**: LP tokens = √(amount_a × amount_b)
- **Subsequent deposits**: Enforces ratio matching
  - `required_b = amount_a × vault_b / vault_a`
  - `lp_to_mint = amount_a × lp_supply / vault_a`

**Validations:**

- Non-zero amounts
- Correct ratio (for existing pools)

### 3. Remove Liquidity

Burns LP tokens to withdraw proportional amounts of both tokens.

**Parameters:**

- `lp_amount`: Amount of LP tokens to burn

**Logic:**

- `amount_a = lp_amount × vault_a / lp_supply`
- `amount_b = lp_amount × vault_b / lp_supply`

**Validations:**

- Non-zero LP amount
- Sufficient LP tokens
- Non-zero withdrawal amounts

### 4. Swap

Exchanges one token for another using the constant product formula.

**Parameters:**

- `amount_in`: Amount of input token
- `min_amount_out`: Minimum acceptable output (slippage protection)

**Logic:**

- Fee: 0.1% (1/1000) of input amount
- Formula: `amount_out = (vault_out × amount_in_after_fee) / (vault_in + amount_in_after_fee)`

**Validations:**

- Non-zero input amount
- Slippage check (output ≥ min_amount_out)

## 🔒 Security Features

### Error Handling

Custom error codes with descriptive messages:

- `ZeroAmount`: Prevents zero-value operations
- `InvalidRatio`: Ensures deposits maintain pool ratio
- `InsufficientLiquidity`: Guards against empty pool operations
- `InsufficientLpTokens`: Validates LP token ownership
- `CalculationOverflow`: Catches arithmetic overflows
- `ZeroWithdrawAmount`: Prevents dust withdrawals
- `SlippageExceeded`: Protects against unfavorable swaps
- `CalculationFailure`: Handles general calculation errors

### Account Validation

- PDA verification using seeds and bumps
- Mint address matching
- Token account ownership checks
- Authority validation
- Constraint-based account validation

### Safe Math

- Checked arithmetic operations
- Overflow protection
- Integer square root for LP token calculation
- U128 intermediate calculations to prevent overflow

## 🔧 Technical Details

### Token Decimals

- LP tokens: 6 decimals (hardcoded)
- Supports any decimal configuration for pool tokens

### Fee Structure

- Swap fee: 0.1% (1/1000)
- Fee remains in the pool, benefiting liquidity providers

### Constant Product Formula

The AMM uses the formula: `x × y = k`

Where:

- `x` = Token A reserves
- `y` = Token B reserves
- `k` = Constant product

For swaps:

```
amount_out = (reserve_out × amount_in_after_fee) / (reserve_in + amount_in_after_fee)
```
